it was one of those days that a reporter
finds himself musing about when he's
half asleep sometimes in a plane your
mind drifts as you prepare for the big
story what is likely to happen at this
moment than that sometimes your mind
drift for the most extreme thing that
could happen
you hastily dismiss it because the most
extreme thing never does happen you pull
your mind back the ordinary things that
always do happen this day began in the
rain with the ordinary things for a
popular president on a grassroots tour
even if it was ostensibly non-political
for a young president with politics in
his blood
a refreshing contact for the source of
his power of the various crowd outside
his Fort Worth hotel his wife he told
them wasn't there because she was still
organizing herself it takes her longer
the president said because she looked
better than we do
mrs. Kennedy did appear a little later
at the Chamber of Commerce breakfast
climbing her entry by waiting outside
the door until all others were
introduced
she appeared the thunderous applause
radiant in a pink suit and match until
about 10:00 this caused a husband to
think back to a day two and a half years
ago five years ago I said that myself a
parrot by saying that I was meant with a
company different Kennedy de Paris I'm
getting that somewhat that same
sensation that as I travel around
detective I knew mrs. Kennedy has
emerged this trip a first lady no longer
shy about the rough and tumble of
politics an arrival in Dallas from Fort
Worth she was true to her new form
she plunged ahead of the president into
the ecstatic crowds some of them potted
glove mauled her sleeve even grabbed one
of the roses off its stem there were no
hostile signs at the airport crowd only
eagerness for contact with the Kennedys
then into the open limousine for the
motorcade through Dallas the president
had done this thousands of times he sat
on the right
mrs. Kennedy on the left everywhere the
crowds were bigger than expected Dallas
authorities were jittery security
precautions were the heaviest in the
city's history Dallas was determined
that its name smirched round-the-world
by the attack on UN Ambassador Adlai
Stevenson last month would not be
dragged through the mud again there were
heavy police forces all along the roof
all possible troublemakers had been
searched out and warned all but one the
downtown streets in the first press bus
restrained to catch any signs of the
hostility the Dallas percussions had led
us to expect but all we saw was a vast
and friendly crowd but MIT many
thousands of welcome deck signs it's
approaching 12:30 p.m. Dallas fine
the crowds in the tall business district
are over filling the sidewalks some tow
streamers and torn paper in a miniature
ticker tape parade the reporters look at
each other they have been no incidents
at about 12:30 - the motorcade turns a
corner into a pathway the pods are
thinner NBC cameraman Dave Whitman and
the car ahead of us takes a passing shot
of a building then three shots are heard
like toy explosions Whitman jumps from
his car running towards the president
for this camera running people scream
and lie down grabbing their children I
leave the motorcade and run after police
who appear to be chasing somebody the
motorcade moves off fast we don't know
it but the president is mortally wounded
in the head and throat his car races for
the hospital the police find no one in
return looking for a phone I go into an
office it's on the ground floor of this
building the Texas School Book
Depository
it is not more than four minutes after
the shooting minutes after a man of a
fifth floor of the same building has
abandoned the high-powered rifle and
fled waves of police move in a small
negro boy tells them he saw a man with a
rifle in the window upstairs witnesses
come up they saw the president hit one
of the witnesses took this Polaroid
picture at the instant of the shooting
it shows the president slumped down in
the car just as Mary started to take the
picture in the president they can't came
right even with us to shot we looked at
him and he was looking at a dog in the
middle of the seat two shots rang out
and he grabbed this chest and a look of
paint on his face and fell across toward
Jackie and she fell over on him and said
my god he's shot and that there was an
interval and then three or four more
shots rang out but that turn the
motorcade sped away a motorcade reaches
Parkland Memorial Hospital it goes
immediately to the emergency entrance
bleeding profusely and unconscious the
president is lifted onto a stretcher and
carried through emergency operating room
number one doctors say his condition is
brave and Moorabbin that his near death
on arrival a senior House physician is
independence a professor of Neurosurgery
and other doctors come immediately
mrs. Kennedy untouched by the bullets is
with her husband Texas Governor John
Connally also seriously wounded is also
in an emergency ward
the doctors try every possible way to
save the president oxygen is given an
anesthetics a blood transfusion a trach
I oughta make that is making an opening
in the throat to aid breathing the
president's heart stops external massage
was applied to his chest but no pulse
results
a priest is called to administer the
last rites of the Roman Catholic Church
at approximately one o'clock the
president is dead the doctors were
working too frantically to revive him to
notice the exact moment the press and
public do not know the president is dead
for another half hour
the only reports available are that he
is gravely wounded at 1:31 Central Time
White House assistant press secretary
Malcolm Kilduff tells the press the
president is dead
at that moment Vice President Lyndon
Johnson suddenly the new president
leaves the hospital a new Secret Service
detail just arrived forms up around him
and he leaves for the airport there in
the president's jet plane Air Force One
a hastily summoned woman federal judge
with a borrowed Bible administers the
oath of office the president body in a
bronze cotton is flown to Washington
Dallas police moved with great speed
after the shooting the story of the
chase arrest and questioning of a
suspect